HTTP server tutorial article - Part 1 - SoftAP (#404)
espressif/developer-portal: content/blog/2025/04/soft-ap-tutorial/index.md

---

> title: "Getting Started: Soft-AP on Espressif Devices"

Reviewer: Not clear what "Getting Started" is for: Getting Started with ESP-IDF?

Maybe we need to have a series _ESP-IDF Tutorials_ or something like that. ESP-IDF Getting Started Tutorials also might be good but looks too long.

Author: Yes, I agree it could be a series with a specific format. I would propose:

1. Getting started with ESP-IDF
2. ESP-IDF Essentials
3. ESP-IDF 101
4. ESP-IDF Quickstart
which one do you suggets?

Reviewer: In the name of the series, we need to emphasize that it is about _learning by doing_. The variants in your list don't necessarily indicate that.

Maybe we can use the words tutorials, hands-on, etc.

Author: Ok then maybe simply `ESP-IDF Tutorial Series: Soft-AP`?

Reviewer: Maybe even `ESP-IDF Tutorials`?

Author: agreed 😄

date: 2025-04-06
showAuthor: false
authors:
  - francesco-bez 
tags: [soft-AP, ESP32-C3, ESP-IDF]

> summary: "This tutorial guides you through setting up a soft-AP on an Espressif module using ESP-IDF. It covers the process of creating a project, configuring Wi-Fi, and handling connection events through event loops and logging. By the end, you'll be able to establish a soft-AP, manage Wi-Fi connections, and from there building more advanced networking applications."

Reviewer: `Espressif module` -- maybe we shouldn't say module here. Usually tutorials are done on development / evaluation boards, right?

Also, suggest the following updates:

```suggestion
summary: "This tutorial guides you through setting up a soft-AP using an Espressif module and ESP-IDF. It covers the process of creating a project, configuring Wi-Fi, and handling connection events through event loops and logging. Upon completion, you’ll be able to establish a soft-AP and manage Wi-Fi connections. It is the first step to building more advanced networking applications."
```

Author: I changed the sentencing. 

 would keep `modules` though because the module is what is used in the end. 
I mean that the development board is just a way to test the module, but in the end your application will run on the module. 
(You could say "in the end it will run on the SoC", true, but the main building block you'll have access to is the module. It is not likely that you'll use the SoC)

---

### Introduction  

In any Wi-Fi-enabled application, the first step is always to establish a connection between the device and the router. In Wi-Fi terminology, the device is referred to as a **Station (STA)**, while the router functions as an **Access Point (AP)**. In most applications, the Espressif module operates as a station, connecting to an existing router. However, before it can do so, the end user must perform **provisioning**—providing the module with the router’s SSID and password.  

There are multiple ways to handle provisioning, but the two most common methods are via Bluetooth and via Wi-Fi. When using Wi-Fi for provisioning, the process typically follows these steps:  

1. The Espressif module starts a soft-AP (temporary access point).  
2. The user connects to this soft-AP.  
3. The module serves an HTTP page that prompts the user to enter the SSID and password.  
4. The user provides the necessary credentials.  
5. The module shuts down the soft-AP and switches to station mode, connecting to the router.  

Even if your application primarily runs the Espressif module in station mode, you’ll still might need to set up a soft-AP for provisioning.  

> Because provisioning is such a common requirement, this tutorial will be followed by a second one that explains how to set up an HTTP server to collect the SSID and password from the user.  

Reviewer: Where not necessary, suggest not using the words referring to something said earlier, like _it_ or _one_.

```suggestion
Because provisioning is such a common requirement, this tutorial will be followed by another tutorial that explains how to set up an HTTP server to collect the SSID and password from the user.
```

<!-- > [!NOTE]
> If you are interested in creating a robust provisioning for an Espressif-based product, the best approach is to use the [Unified Provisioning](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/provisioning/provisioning.html). -->

{{< alert icon="circle-info" cardColor="#b3e0f2" iconColor="#04a5e5" >}}
If you are interested in creating a __robust__ provisioning for an Espressif-based product, the best approach is to use the [Unified Provisioning](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/provisioning/provisioning.html).
{{< /alert >}}

This tutorial serves as a foundation for other Wi-Fi connectivity applications, ensuring a smooth and reliable connection setup.  

> We will first create a new project, include the necessary libraries and catch the Wi-Fi events. Here we will also encounter

Reviewer: Oxford comma, we encourage to use it everywhere.

```suggestion
We will first create a new project, include the necessary libraries, and catch the Wi-Fi events. Here we will also encounter
```

Author: Changed. I'll never get used to it :)

Reviewer: It is a good thing to use. It clearly indicates all constituent parts of the enumeration.

I like the example from our Manual of Style about the table columns. Compare:

- The table consists of the columns: role, position, first name and last name.

  **Q**: How many columns does this table have?
  **A**: 3 or maybe 4.
- The table consists of the columns: role, position, first name, and last name.

  **Q**: How many columns does this table have?
  **A**: 4!

This example might seem a bit stretched out. But I came across more cases like this, including our Espressfi docs. Should have taken notes about them back then ...

- **menuconfig** - The tool which handles the configuration in ESP-IDF projects
- **Logs** - A neat way to handle useful information during development
- **Event loops** – A design pattern used throughout the Espressif ESP-IDF framework to simplify the management of complex applications.  
- **esp-netif** – Espressif's abstraction layer for TCP/IP networking.  
- **Non-volatile storage (NVS)** – For saving credentials

{{< alert icon="circle-info" cardColor="#b3e0f2" iconColor="#04a5e5" >}}
The shortcuts mentioned below refer to VSCode, but you can use any IDE or any editor if compiling through the command line.  
{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, ensure that you

> - Can compile and flash the [`hello_world`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/get-started/hello_world) example. If not, you can follow the instructions on the official [get started guide](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32c3/get-started/index.html).

Reviewer: Not sure if we need the word official here. Also, we usually call it "ESP-IDF Getting Started". Not sure who and why updated it to Get Started. It sounds like a command. Once of these days, I plan to review the Getting Started.

```suggestion
- Can compile and flash the [`hello_world`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/get-started/hello_world) example. If not, you can follow the instructions in the [ESP-IDF Getting Started](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32c3/get-started/index.html) guide.
```

> - Have an Espressif evaluation board or another compatible board for flashing the code. In this tutorial we will use the [ESP32-C3-DevkitM-1](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-dev-kits/en/latest/esp32c3/esp32-c3-devkitm-1/user_guide.html) but any Espressif evaluation board will work just as well. If you built your own board, you might need a [ESP-PROG](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-iot-solution/en/latest/hw-reference/ESP-Prog_guide.html) programmer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have an Espressif evaluation board or another compatible board for flashing the code. In this tutorial we will use the [ESP32-C3-DevkitM-1](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-dev-kits/en/latest/esp32c3/esp32-c3-devkitm-1/user_guide.html) but any Espressif evaluation board will work just as well. If you built your own board, you might need an [ESP-PROG](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-iot-solution/en/latest/hw-reference/ESP-Prog_guide.html) programmer. 
```

- Understand the difference between a Wi-Fi access point and a Wi-Fi station.

## Create a new project

To start a new project and prepare for the following steps, we will perform these actions: 
1. Create a new project using the [`hello_world`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/get-started/hello_world) example as a starting point.
2. Set the target core.

> 3. Select right port.

Reviewer: Select the correct port?

Author: Yes, sounds way better.

> 4. Build, flash and start a monitor with `hello_world`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Build, flash, and start a monitor with `hello_world`.
```

If you're using a simple text editor and the CLI commands, you can follow the instruction on the get-started guide ([linux/mac-os](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/get-started/linux-macos-setup.html#get-started-linux-macos-first-steps) | [windows](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/get-started/windows-setup.html#get-started-windows-first-steps) ).
{{< /alert >}}

Open VSCode, press `CTRL+SHIFT+P`and start typing `ESP-IDF: New Project`. Follow the instructions to create a new project using the `hello_world` as a template. 

Next, we need to set the target and port for the flashing stage. In this tutorial, we're using an `ESP32-C3-DevKitM-1`. 
Start typing `ESP-IDF: Set Espressif Device Target` and select `esp32c3`. If you are using an evaluation board or a USB-UART bridge, select `The ESP32-C3 Chip via builtin USB-JTAG`. If you're using one of the `ESP-PROG` programmers, choose the most appropriate option. 

Next, select the right port by typing `ESP-IDF: Select Port to Use (COM, tty, usbserial)`. 
At this point, we can run the command `ESP-IDF: Build, Flash and start a Monitor on your device`. 

> If everything runs smoothly, we should see the compilation finish successfully, followed by the firmware flashing and the `hello_world` example running, displaying `Hello world!` and restarting after 10 seconds. 

Reviewer: Suggest that you use a tabbed block here to separate the content for CLI and VS Code extension (please keep the indentation like this so that the rendered version is properly indented):

```md
    {{< tabs groupId="devtool" >}}
      {{% tab name="VS Code extension" %}}
If you’re using a simple text editor and the CLI commands, you can follow the instruction on the get-started guide (linux/mac-os | windows ).
      {{% /tab %}}

      {{% tab name="CLI" %}}
Open VSCode, press CTRL+SHIFT+P and start typing ESP-IDF: New Project.
...
      {{% /tab %}}
    {{< /tabs >}}
```

Author: Done.

We have just compiled the code and flashed it onto the internal flash memory of the Espressif module. On boot, the module now runs the `hello_world`example, sending a 'Hello, World' message to the serial port (connected to the programmer), along with a countdown until the module restarts. This step ensures that the entire process is working correctly. Now, we can begin modifying the code to implement the soft-AP.

Now, update the content of `hello_world_main.c` to the following code:

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "sdkconfig.h"

void app_main(void)
{
    printf("Hello tutorial!\n");

}
```

Then build, flash and monitor again to confirm that everything is working correctly. 

> Before moving on, it's best rename the file for better clarity. Rename the file `hello_world_main.c` &rarr; `basic_http_server.c`. 

Author: Yes, changed.

```
idf_component_register(SRCS "basic_http_server.c"
                    PRIV_REQUIRES 
                    INCLUDE_DIRS "")
```

After making these changes:

- Perform a full clean: Run `ESP-IDF: Full Clean Project`
- Build, flash and open a monitor again. 

<!-- > [!WARNING]
> Every time you change the CMakeLists.txt, you need to perform a full clean to see the changes take effect. To know more about the build system, consult the [documentation](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/build-system.html#minimal-component-cmakelists). -->

{{< alert iconColor="#df8e1d" cardColor="#edcea3">}}
Every time you change the CMakeLists.txt, you need to perform a full clean to see the changes take effect. To learn more about the build system, consult the [documentation](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/build-system.html#minimal-component-cmakelists).
{{< /alert >}}

A final step before moving on: To keep things as simple as possible, in this tutorial we will not use Non-Volatile Storage (NVS), which is commonly used with Wi-Fi to store credentials and access calibration data.

> By default, some configuration variables have NVS enabled, which may cause warnings or errors. To avoid this, we need to disable them in `menuconfig`, the tool used in ESP-IDF to handle the configuration of the project. 

Author: removed duplicate.

To access `menuconfig`, press `CTRL+SHIFT+P`, type `ESP-IDF: SDK Configuration Editor` and select it. In the search bar type `NVS` then uncheck the following options

{{< figure
default=true
src="img/disable_nvs.webp"
height=500
caption="NVS options to be disabled"

>     >}}

Author: added

Now your project should resemble the [bare-minimum example](https://github.com/FBEZ-docs-and-templates/devrel-tutorials-code/tree/main/tutorial-basic-project) in the repository below. 

> {{< github repo="FBEZ-docs-and-templates/devrel-tutorials-code" >}}

Reviewer: This shortcode renders strangely. It should render like this:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8938c51e-be41-40ae-9813-b10ca1ac113a)

Try adding an empty line between the paragraph and the shortcode. Maybe it will fix the rendering.

Author: Done. Strangely it works correctly on my local server.

   ```c
   static const char* TAG = "my_module";
   ```  
3. Use the logging macros: 
   You can then log messages using macros like:  
   ```c
   ESP_LOGI(TAG, "Server connection with code %d", server_code);
   ```  

### Logging Levels in ESP-IDF  
In this tutorial, only `ESP_LOGI` (informational logs) will be used, but there are other available logging macros:  
- `ESP_LOGE(TAG, "...")` – Error logs  
- `ESP_LOGW(TAG, "...")` – Warning logs  
- `ESP_LOGD(TAG, "...")` – Debug logs  
- `ESP_LOGV(TAG, "...")` – Verbose logs  

For a detailed explanation of logging functions, refer to the [official documentation](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/system/log.html). 

## Starting the soft-AP

To set up a soft-AP, we will need to: 

1. **Define soft-AP parameters:**  
   To keep things easy, we will use some `#define`s for SSID, password and the other soft-AP parameters.  
1. **Initialize the IP Stack:**  
   We'll call `esp_netif_init()` to initialize the network interface.
2. **Initialize the event loop:**  
   We'll call `esp_event_loop_create_default()` to initialize the standard event loop.  
3. **Register handlers for soft-AP:**  

>    We'll register the event handlers needed for a soft AP application.  

Reviewer: soft-AP?

Author: yep

4. **Connect to the soft-AP with a Smartphone:**  
   We'll check the connection using a smartphone and connecting to the soft-AP. 

> Espressif IP stack is managed through an unified interface called [`esp_netif`](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/network/esp_netif.html#esp-netif). This interface was designed to provide an agnostic abstraction for different IP stacks. Currently the only TCP/IP stack available through this interface is lwIP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Espressif IP stack is managed through an unified interface called [`esp_netif`](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/network/esp_netif.html#esp-netif). This interface was designed to provide an agnostic abstraction for different IP stacks. Currently, the only TCP/IP stack available through this interface is lwIP. 
```

> For most application, creating a default network with the default event loop is sufficient - this is the approach used in this tutorial.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most applications, creating a default network with the default event loop is sufficient -- this is the approach used in this tutorial.  
```

```c
static void wifi_event_handler(void* arg, esp_event_base_t event_base,
                                  int32_t event_id, void* event_data){
    printf("Event nr: %ld!\n", event_id);
}
```

Now compile, flash, start a monitor and run the project. We should start seeing several event numbers appearing on the terminal.

### Connect to the soft-AP with a Smartphone

At this point, take your smartphone, open the Wi-Fi list, and select the SSID `esp_tutorial`. When we do so, we should see on the terminal `Event nr: 14!`. 
 
{{< figure
    default=true
    src="img/ap_list.webp"
    height=500
    caption="Listing of APs"
    >}}

If we check on the `esp-idf` source code related to the event codes ([here](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/c5865270b50529cd32353f588d8a917d89f3dba4/components/esp_wifi/include/esp_wifi_types_generic.h#L964)), we will find that 14 corresponds to `WIFI_EVENT_AP_STACONNECTED`. 

This indicates that a station (STA) has connected to the soft-AP. 

<!--  [!NOTE] 
> You can use the `event_id`to discriminate between different events and then use the additional data you are provided with `event_data`.  
 -->

> We can use the `event_id`to distinguish between different events and then process the additional data you available in `event_data`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the `event_id` to distinguish between different events and then process the additional data available in `event_data`.  
```

This allows us to handle specific Wi-Fi events appropriately, such as when a station connects or disconnects from the soft-AP. 

{{< alert icon="lightbulb" iconColor="#179299"  cardColor="#9cccce">}}

`event_data` is a void pointer, you need to cast it to the proper structure if you want to extract data. [Here](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/c5865270b50529cd32353f588d8a917d89f3dba4/examples/wifi/getting_started/softAP/main/softap_example_main.c#L36) you can find two examples. 

{{< /alert >}}

<!-- Note that `event_data` is a void pointer, you need to cast it to the proper structure if you want to extract data. [Here](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/c5865270b50529cd32353f588d8a917d89f3dba4/examples/wifi/getting_started/softAP/main/softap_example_main.c#L36) you can find two examples. -->

> 

Reviewer: Do you have the resulting code anywhere for the readers to compare if they followed all the steps correctly?

Author: Yes I have. It's in the repo mentioned at the beginning. I would add a reference again here at the end to the specific file.

There are multiple ways to handle provisioning, but the two most common methods are via Bluetooth and via Wi-Fi. When using Wi-Fi for provisioning, the process typically follows these steps:  

1. The Espressif module starts a soft-AP (temporary access point).  
2. The user connects to this soft-AP.  
3. The module serves an HTTP page that prompts the user to enter the SSID and password.  
4. The user provides the necessary credentials.  
5. The module shuts down the soft-AP and switches to station mode, connecting to the router.  

Even if your application primarily runs the Espressif module in station mode, you'll still might need to set up a soft-AP for provisioning.  

Because provisioning is such a common requirement, this tutorial will be followed by another tutorial that explains how to set up an HTTP server to collect the SSID and password from the user.  

<!-- > [!NOTE]
> If you are interested in creating a robust provisioning for an Espressif-based product, the best approach is to use the [Unified Provisioning](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/provisioning/provisioning.html). -->

> {{< alert icon="circle-info" cardColor="#b3e0f2" iconColor="#04a5e5" >}}
> If you are interested in creating a __robust__ provisioning for an Espressif-based product, the best approach is to use the [Unified Provisioning](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/provisioning/provisioning.html) framework. It allows configuring ESP devices with Wi-Fi credentials and custom settings using various transport methods (Wi-Fi SoftAP or Bluetooth LE) and security schemes.
> In this and in the following tutorials, a very simple (and less secure) provisioning will be implemented.
> {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: Suggest streamlining the last sentence and putting it at the beginning, because this information is more relevant for the tutorial.

Also, the note looks a bit long. Suggest rewriting the following sentences to make them more concise.

```suggestion
{{< alert icon="circle-info" cardColor="#b3e0f2" iconColor="#04a5e5" >}}
This and the following tutorials use a simple provisioning technique, which is inherently less secure.

For real-world applications, it is better to use a  __robust__ provisioning solution, such as the [Unified Provisioning](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-reference/provisioning/provisioning.html) framework. It allows configuring ESP devices with Wi-Fi credentials and custom settings using various transport methods (Wi-Fi SoftAP or Bluetooth LE) and security schemes.
{{< /alert >}}
```

Author: noted.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

If everything runs smoothly, we should see the compilation finish successfully, followed by the firmware flashing and the `hello_world` example running, displaying `Hello world!` and restarting after 10 seconds. 

We have just compiled the code and flashed it onto the internal flash memory of the Espressif module. On boot, the module now runs the `hello_world` example, sending a 'Hello, World' message to the serial port (connected to the programmer), along with a countdown until the module restarts. This step ensures that the entire process is working correctly. Now, we can begin modifying the code to implement the soft-AP.

Now, update the content of `hello_world_main.c` to the following code:

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "sdkconfig.h"

void app_main(void)
{
    printf("Hello tutorial!\n");

}
```

Then build, flash, and monitor again to confirm that everything is working correctly. 

> Before moving on, it's best rename the file for better clarity. Rename the file `hello_world_main.c` &rarr; `basic_soft_ap.c`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before moving on, rename the file `hello_world_main.c` &rarr; `basic_soft_ap.c` for clarity. 
```

Author: Changed.

- Build, flash and open a monitor again. 

<!-- > [!WARNING]
> Every time you change the CMakeLists.txt, you need to perform a full clean to see the changes take effect. To know more about the build system, consult the [documentation](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/build-system.html#minimal-component-cmakelists). -->

{{< alert iconColor="#df8e1d" cardColor="#edcea3">}}
Every time you change the CMakeLists.txt, you need to perform a full clean to see the changes take effect. To learn more about the build system, consult the document [Build System](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/build-system.html#minimal-component-cmakelists).
{{< /alert >}}

Now we need to complete the final step before moving on. To keep things as simple as possible, in this tutorial we will not use Non-Volatile Storage (NVS), which is commonly used with Wi-Fi to store credentials and access calibration data.

By default, some configuration variables have NVS enabled, which may cause warnings or errors. To avoid this, we need to disable them in `menuconfig`. 

{{< tabs groupId="devtool" >}}

> {{% tab name="VSCode extension" %}}

Reviewer: I know that VS Code is written interchangeably with a space and without.

However, its official docs and the website lean towards VS Code. So we standardized the spelling with a space in our Vale linting config.

Let's use the space here?

```suggestion
{{% tab name="VS Code extension" %}}
```

To access `menuconfig`, press `CTRL+SHIFT+P`, type `ESP-IDF: SDK Configuration Editor` and select it. In the search bar type `NVS` then uncheck the following options
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="CLI" %}}
To access `menuconfig`, call `idf.py menuconfig`
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< figure
default=true
src="img/disable_nvs.webp"
height=500
caption="NVS options to be disabled"

>     >}}

Reviewer: I guess the picture is related to VS Code extension. How about also placing it in the respective tab?

Author: yep, done

Now your project should resemble the [bare-minimum example](https://github.com/FBEZ-docs-and-templates/devrel-tutorials-code/tree/main/tutorial-basic-project) in the repository below. 

{{< github repo="FBEZ-docs-and-templates/devrel-tutorials-code" >}}

After a quick look at how logs are managed in Espressif, we can start with the soft-AP. 

## A short detour: Logs

While not strictly necessary for this tutorial, logs are extremely useful when developing applications. 

Espressif logging system is provided by the `esp_log.h` header, which you need to include to use logging features.

> ### How to Use Logging in Your Code  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to use logging in your code  
```

1. Include the header: 
   ```c
   #include "esp_log.h"
   ```  
2. Define a module-specific tag:
   Each C file using logging should define a **TAG** string:  
   ```c
   static const char* TAG = "my_module";
   ```  
3. Use the logging macros: 
   You can then log messages using macros like:  
   ```c
   ESP_LOGI(TAG, "Server connection with code %d", server_code);
   ```  

> ### Logging Levels in ESP-IDF  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Logging levels in ESP-IDF  
```

---
title: "ESP-IDF Tutorials: Soft-AP"

> date: 2025-04-11

Reviewer 2: Please set the date to `date: 2025-04-18`.

`event_data` is a void pointer, you need to cast it to the proper structure if you want to extract data. [Here](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/c5865270b50529cd32353f588d8a917d89f3dba4/examples/wifi/getting_started/softAP/main/softap_example_main.c#L36) you can find two examples. 

{{< /alert >}}

You can find the complete code at the link [soft-ap tutorial code](https://github.com/FBEZ-docs-and-templates/devrel-tutorials-code/blob/main/tutorial-soft-ap/main/basic_soft_ap.c). 

<!-- Note that `event_data` is a void pointer, you need to cast it to the proper structure if you want to extract data. [Here](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/c5865270b50529cd32353f588d8a917d89f3dba4/examples/wifi/getting_started/softAP/main/softap_example_main.c#L36) you can find two examples. -->

## Conclusion  

In this tutorial, you learned how to:  

1. Create a new project based on the `hello_world` example.  
2. Initialize the `esp_netif` library.  
3. Start the standard event loop to handle Wi-Fi events.  
4. Configure and launch a soft-AP, allowing devices to connect via Wi-Fi.  
5. Verify event handling by monitoring the terminal for connection events.  

> This serves as a foundation for building more advanced Wi-Fi applications, such as MQTT clients, HTTP servers, or other networked solutions.

Reviewer 2: Consider adding the [ESP32-C6 workshop](https://preview-developer.espressif.com/pr404/workshops/esp-idf-with-esp32-c6/) as additional material.
